In the coming 15 years, the emerging
markets have what's called a demographic
[music] boom coming through them.
We just want to give them hope and
aspiration cuz if you don't, the
alternative [music]
is mass migration, is fragility,
conflict and violence
>> and uprisings
>> and all that.
>> So, how long are you in London for?
>> Uh, today.
>> Two days. just today
>> and then doing a couple of days in the
Philippines and then to Tokyo and then
off to China and then back home.
>> You're never tired.
>> You get used to it over the years.
>> Do you?
>> Yeah. I've done, you know, 24-hour trips
to Australia and back and people like
you're crazy. No, it's actually great
because you're in no time zone.
>> Yeah, but it's tough. It's tough on the
body. How long have you been doing this?
Like 20 years.
>> 1999.
[music]
The mission for the World Bank is
basically end poverty in a livable
>> planet.
>> Correct. Which is exactly jobs and
quality of life.
>> AJ Banga runs the World Bank and he
spends a lot of his time thinking about
one impending problem. [music]
The World Bank estimates that 1.2
billion people are expected [music] to
enter the job market over the next
decade.
But there will only be 400 million new
jobs then. So what will happen to the
800 million youth for whom no job
exists?
This is a ticking time bomb of historic
proportions.
[music]
By 2050, more than 80% of the world
population will live in what today we
consider developing countries.
And [music] these economies will hold
the vast majority of young people with
the largest growth in urban populations.
[music]
>> What made you decide to go to the World
Bank?
>> I just believe that [music] the world's
problems are thick and dense and they
they are two or three interlocking
[music] problems. Uh the problem
inequality and poverty. Uh the really
serious challenge of the fact that uh
you know talent is everywhere but
opportunity and capital is not is a big
issue and that affects gender. It
affects uh people of ethnic systems. It
affects everything and the problem is
anything you do on these issues of
poverty and a better [music] quality of
life for people requires long-term
thinking.
>> Right? And unfortunately, the system is
incented in short-term thinking. [music]
Whether you're a politician or you're a
teacher or you're a CEO, the system
pushes you towards less than optimal
time frames. [music]
>> The World Bank is where long-term
thinking thrives.
It's a very big, slowmoving bureaucratic
machine where credits [music] and loans
can have final maturities of up to 50
years.
and it employs over 20,000 [music]
people across more than 140 locations.
It's 80 [music] years old. Four long
years of intensive work that are laying
the groundwork for this day.
>> It's an intergovernmental institution
made up of 189 member [music] countries.
It financed bullet trains in Japan and
rebuilt the country after World War II.
It also loaned $250 million to France in
1947.
India, China, Indonesia, Nigeria, and
Vietnam are just a few other economies
the World Bank has helped.
>> I knew it's going to be tough. I knew
it's going to be cumbersome. I knew it's
going to be part of a bureaucracy. But,
you know, bureaucracies exist in the
private sector, too. Change is something
you got to do everywhere. And so, that
doesn't scare me. But the idea of being
able to make a difference and not be an
armchair critic that inspires me. You
>> you also grew up looking at you know
people in poverty. Did that shape your
worldview from a very young age?
>> When I was young and growing up in India
I lived a sheltered life because of the
army. But the moment you go out and go
for a holiday or you go on your way to
school every day and you go on a school
bus, you see everything and then you
realize that there's another thing out
there. I didn't understand quite
honestly till I was much older the
aspect this meant and what it what that
differentiation really meant. I didn't
understand it till I was probably in my
high school days and I began to
understand what it meant to those people
and what it meant to their life and how
fortunate I was to be where I was. Then
of course it does make a difference. My
father was in the army and which meant
we sort of moved every couple of years
and army brat is what they get called.
So one of the quick things you learn is
how to fit into a school and make
friends.
>> But you have to be pretty adaptable. Is
adaptability one of the things that is
necessary now to be a good leader?
>> Both adaptability and and aphability.
You got to kind of get along because you
are the one who comes from outside. Also
the willingness to not always want what
you want but understand that others want
to do things too. And and there you've
got to have curiosity. You've got to
have adjustability. You've got to have a
level of affability. You've got to have
all that to get along. Were you always a
good negotiator?
[laughter]
>> I guess that comes with the territory.
>> AJ Bankau went on to study [music]
economics at Delhi University and a
postgrad at the Indian Institute of
Management Amedabad.
Then for nearly three decades, [music]
Bangab built a career defined by scale.
He started at Nestle India in sales,
marketing and general [music]
management. He steered PepsiCo's
expansions at a pivotal moment when
India's economy was liberalizing and he
rose through the ranks at Croup to
oversee one of the bank's largest
regions. By 2008, AJ Banga was appointed
chief executive officer of Croup
Asia-Pacific and he brought modern
banking to millions. I worked in India
and my first few years after my MBA were
in [music] sales in Nestle and they
basically put you out there in these
towns and villages doing a 26 day and a
month routine of travel with the sales
rep and a sales van from a local
distributor and different towns. You're
traveling, you know, in buses and small
jeeps and living in small hotels and
really not $2 a day. That's what my
daily allowance used to be which was a
fair amount in India in the rural part
of India at that time. But it just tells
you you suddenly get this exposure and
you realize that the products you're
selling cost a lot compared to what
others can afford and there's a whole
awareness that breathes like osmosis
into your [music] skin.
The period at city is when I realized
that what I had learned, what I'd seen
when I was growing up. You could use
traditional financial institutions,
their skills, their capacity and their
capability and make a difference to
these others who in turn were impacting
people whom I had seen and never thought
I could do something about. But now I
found I could do my business and also do
this. And that became kind of the idea
of you know doing good and doing well at
the same time. And people call it doing
well by doing good, doing good by doing
well. It's very confusing, but the idea
is you can do both.
>> Banga joined Mastercard next as chief
operating officer and went on to become
president and chief executive officer
with an 8 figureure pay package. Banga
pushed Mastercard beyond traditional
payments into the digital economy. I
want to find a way to kill cash. That's
what I thought the opportunity was in
Mastercard. That is financial inclusion
because so many people were in cash and
if you wanted them to get included and
then start using digital payments that
is an automatic reason to do so right
and yet that is daunting because it is
so embedded in lives and you know it was
in countries like India it was 90% of
transactions even in America at that
time it was 65 70% of transactions and
so it was very embedded it's a big thing
to take on when you started breaking it
down into what you could do it came to a
very simple strategy. Grow your existing
business, credit, debit, prepaid, that
stuff. Diversify your clients to not
just the biggest banks, but also add
smaller banks, fintex, technology firms,
governments, do all that. And then build
out new businesses, which was the
company Mastercard at that time. About
4% of its revenues used to come from
data analytics, what's now called AI,
right? And I basically said we'll get
that to 40% by the time 10 years go by.
And when I left, we were actually at
36%.
>> Let's take humility, put it in a box,
and throw it out the window. You're now
a CEO of Mastercard. City had you on
deck to be C CEO of City. You are a big
deal.
>> Where's Where's my daughter? Is she in
the audience?
>> When I joined Mastercard, it was a tiny
company. It was 20 billion market cap.
By the time I left to 360 billion and
>> what do you remember as most difficult
at Mastercard? You grew it immensely.
Was it getting the the people to follow
your leadership or just convincing
clients that you were the the [music]
go-to?
>> Yeah. No, there were multiple
challenges. One was the whole technology
was changing [music] around you. And you
know, if you go back to when I first
joined there, it was in 2009.
Digitization had arrived, but think of
the change between 09 and 2020. and that
dramatic change and the adoption of
phones and biometric ways of paying and
wallets on a phone and the growth of an
Apple and the growth of a Google and the
growth of Alipe in in the east and China
and the like all [music] that is going
on during that period. So technology and
the change actually gave me the chance
to tell people that if you don't adjust
you will become extinct. And the way to
to stay ahead of this is to embrace the
change and make it part of your culture.
Leadership is a privilege. It's not your
birthright. And so you've got to think
about how you can help others grow. And
that's what management is all about.
Right? When I was younger, it was all
about your IQ. You know, if you were
smart, you kind of did well. And by the
time you get to business school, it
became about your EQ. We were being
taught that you had to get along with
people and you couldn't really choose
the boss. You worked with other
colleagues and you had to find a way to
adjust and adapt. But now I think it's
about your DQ, which is your decency
quotient, which is can you actually get
people to realize that your hand is on
their back. You're pushing them, but
it's on the back. It's not in their
face. You're not giving them just a free
handout. You're not just trying to give
them a starting point that's equal and
then let the best one win.
>> When do you when do you have to decide
whether that's the person you should be?
Is it something that you're taught at
school or is it in your first job?
>> You pick it up over time. Just kind of
pick it up over time. It's it's osmosis.
I just believe that one of the best
things about a person is osmosis. If
you're curious, you will have osmosis.
If you lose your curiosity, you're done.
Fail fast. And you know,
>> I like that. How do you fail fast? Do
you implement fast? And then if it
doesn't work, you move.
>> You try stuff. If it doesn't work,
you've got to know how to cut the cord.
The the worst thing you can do is you
know it's not working and you keep
trying to figure out I'm so smart. I
must have thought of this the right way.
I just need to do another trick in it.
At some point, you have to learn that
that's not going to work. Stop and move
on to the next one. And I think that
comes from that same openness. Are you
listening to people? Are you listening
to what they're saying?
>> Like when you leave the bank, what what
do you want to have happen?
>> I want young people around the world of
whom right now there's 1.2 billion
coming through the pipe in the emerging
markets to be ready for a job. Those
young people, they can drive the next
30, 40 years of growth and development,
but they have to have a chance. While
you look at the last 3 years, I look at
a number of countries around the world
and you'll see the youngest people are
in the streets protesting.
>> This flag pops up in nearly all these
protests. It's not just a pirate emblem.
It's a symbol of freedom, resistance,
defiance, and the pursuit of dreams.
Gen Z are setting new records on the
misery index, an economic indicator of
unhappiness equal to the sum of
inflation and unemployment rate. Gen Z
protesters collapse governments in
Madagascar, Nepal, Bulgaria, and
Bangladesh.
In short, Gen Z are not all right.
They're living a job squeeze of historic
proportions. They're pessimistic. For
some, corruption is rampant, equality
inexistent. Others lack basic public
services and infrastructure.
Globally, one in four young people are
neither employed nor studying today.
My friends, everyone calls me Emmy and
I'm 23 years old. I'm from Kathmandu. I
was working as a freelancer uh MC.
Nepal is still an underdeveloping
nation. The way a government has
implemented its resources, we have been
facing unemployment very badly. We could
support oursel with small freelancing
gigs from the social media and YouTube
was kind of our school away from school.
Social media is also a place to put up
your frustration. So when government
banned social media, it felt like it's
curtailing our voice. So of course it
ignited an anger [music] in everyone.
It was a entire generation who were
frustrated with the way things were with
the unemployment with the corruption
cases and everything. So it was like
there were collectively different sort
of groups around scattered
[music]
>> but things quickly escalated and
violence broke out.
>> It was a very brutal scene. the place
where carried so much of beautiful
memories of my life turned into a war.
John unfold in front of my eyes and it
just I could not process and I could not
believe that okay I'm actually
witnessing this.
All I could hear was nonstop
gunshots. [music]
Everyone were like, "Okay, we're done.
We're done with this people." The
parliament was on fire. Ministers were
thrashed on the streets. The Supreme
Court was torched. And the capital of
Kathmandu was overrun.
>> It was like the country whole country
had lost its sanity. And in less than 48
hours after the prime minister resigned,
our country went into the power vacuum
for the next 3 days.
A victory would be a good fresh [music]
parliament where I would see deserving
promising faces and who would take up
all these mandate from our revolution
from our protest.
A whole generations have [music] been
awake and aware and questioning seeking
accountability that in the long term
would be considered a victory.
[music]
If you look at the the necessary jobs in
the future with AI and the number of
young people coming to the workforce,
there's a mismatch.
>> Yeah. Well, here's the thing. In the
emerging markets, AI is different from
what you see the opportunity or threats
of AI in the developed world because big
AI, which is what we talk about in the
developed world, requires a few things.
It requires lots of computing power,
>> lots of electricity, lots of data, and
lots of people who understand how to use
that. There are very few emerging
markets that have those four things. And
so actually what you'll end up happening
in the emerging markets will be small
AI, which is tools and applications
delivered at the edge on a phone that
isn't necessarily the world's smartest
phone, which helps you with healthcare
and farming tips and education. But if
we stay as we are, there's still not
enough jobs for the youth of today.
>> Well, look at it this way.
What are the opportunities in the
emerging markets to create jobs? If you
look, there are five sectors. The first
one is infrastructure. The second one is
agriculture. The third one is tourism.
So if you think of the opportunities of
tourism in these countries and tourism
creates the most jobs per dollar
invested
>> and the fourth is healthcare and the
last one is value added manufacturing
locally whether it's pharma or minerals
and metals.
>> None of those are AI impacted as much as
you would think they would be. No, but
it means that you need to have a stable
politics, right? Politic, you need you
need stability, you need growth.
>> Yes.
>> And you need job creation.
>> You need three things to happen. You
need the infrastructure.
>> Yeah.
>> You need the right governance and
policies. That's the point you're
making. And the third is you need the
private sector because jobs are created
in the private sector.
>> The world needs trillions of dollars
over the next decade to address climate
change, infrastructure gaps, food
insecurity, and energy transitions.
But there simply isn't enough public
money in the world for that. Private
capital on the other hand is much more
readily available and about 90% of jobs
in developing economies are in the
private sector. [music]
But even in Ukraine, the private sector
is alive and well. It's just different
from the private sector we think about.
But if you see Ukraine and you look at
the private sector there, the World Bank
is actually financing trade finance and
we're putting money into insurance
companies and there is a private sector
in technology in drone manufacturing in
all that. So every country has something
going on. The question is can you
encourage that private sector through
catalytic capital to go further? You can
never do that without the right
governance and policies and the right
infrastructure. It's absolutely correct.
But you can't solve every country but
you can solve 20 you made a difference
the lives of the millions of people in
those 20 and that's the kind of focus we
are on work on infrastructure work on
right governance and policies because we
are a knowledge bank not just a money
bank we can actually help with that and
then work with the private sector and do
it in those five sectors I'm talking
about either as an entrepreneur or as a
as a job working for somebody else and
that's the pivot the World Bank is on
>> but if someone comes to you and says,
"What's in it for me?" What's your
answer?
>> What's in it for you in a country is the
fact that if you can help to grow the
economy overseas and create jobs, your
companies benefit, your products
benefit, your technology benefits, and
most importantly, you ensure that there
are stable systems and stable societies
and stable markets overseas.
>> The number one political issue of our
time, the crisis of uncontrolled
migration. It's uncontrolled.
the IFD.
>> Doesn't populism teach you actually that
you should you shouldn't care what
happens outside your borders. You just
don't want anyone in.
>> Yeah, you shouldn't. But the question is
that's only one form of populism.
[music] The real form of populism when
you think through what people are
discussing is that you want
opportunities for your people. And the
only way you'll get opportunities for
your people is actually through global
markets and global systems [music]
because you have companies and
technology and products and services
that are advantaged. I think that's just
worth keeping in your mind. What'll tear
us apart is illegal migration. So when
you think about what's going on in our
world and what is making people feel
insecure, [music]
yes AI is a problem. But if you think
about illegal migration, not migration,
we all need legal migration because we
don't have all the skills or all the
people in the older societies of the
developed world. Legal migration is
really important and should be
encouraged in the right way. Illegal
migration can be a problem.
>> Every day someone says multilateralism
is dead.
>> Yes.
>> Do you agree with that?
>> No. Because during the last year or two
when things were really tough IDA 21
happened that's the we got to raise
money every 3 years for that part of the
bank that goes to 78 poorest countries
because we give away onethird of the
money every year without repayment. So
it kind of runs out even though we're
profitable and the rest of the bank runs
on its own but this one requires
recapitalization.
During this entire period, we
recapitalized IDA 21 that is the the
campaign at a record level higher than
ever earlier. And that was [music]
during the time period that the Japanese
government changed, the German
government changed, the French
government changed a couple of times,
the British government changed, the
American government changed, the
Canadian [music] government changed, the
Korean government declared martial law
on the day of our event in Soul.
[snorts] So even with political turmoil,
there is a role for multilateralism. The
question is what kind of multilateralism
aimed for what and that I think is the
issue
>> and so how has it changed this is what
public public money that gets married
also with private money.
>> Yes. Absolutely. So that's a really
important point that you will find that
fiscal constraints exist everywhere in
the world. The developed world has it
own
>> and therefore relying on handouts is not
going to work. I really believe in any
case that handouts have a low outcome
probability and that you have to find a
way to incent people to use the money
they're getting to use it for better.
It's not that you don't need some
handouts, but you do need that's grants,
but you do need as well the incentive to
use that money to make things happen.
And I think the private sector and
private capital mobilization combined
with the money you can get from the
public sector combined with
philanthropy, that's a good combination
to work with. My kids, by the way, had
no idea what the World Bank was when I
first told them. They were like, "What
are you talking about, Dad? What's the
World Bank? I thought you worked at City
Bank and Mastercard. What's this?"
>> How many How many children you have?
>> I got two girls.
I want my daughters to never think that
their father was an armchair critic.
That would be a tragic sort of thing to
be.
>> What's the the one thing that you you
constantly told them growing up?
>> That you can beat any boy. [laughter]
>> That's a good That's a good motto. Are
you different in your private life than
you are at work?
>> Do you like to keep those separate?
>> I'm I have a very simple rule. I when
I'm finished at work in the evening, if
I'm out with the family, I actually
don't take my phone along and I leave it
home. And it's been I've been doing this
for years, right? And it allows me to
just switch off because I'm in the
moment for where I am and I'm here with
you right now and I care about what I'm
talking about to you and with my kids
it's them.
>> Andre, thank you so much.
>> Thank you. Thanks a lot. [music]
[music]
Heat.
[music] Heat.
>> [music]
>> One [music] more.